documentation/modules/ROOT/partials/_deploy_gloo_edge.adoc, before:

Gloo tasks allows you to configure the Gloo Edge installation.

[#gloo-edge-ansible-vars]
== Gloo Edge Ansible Variables

.Gloo Ansible Variables
|===
| Name | Description | Default Value

| deploy_gloo_edge
| To deploy Gloo Edge or not, accepts `true` or `false`
| false

| gloo_edge_edition
a| 
The gloo variant to deploy, possible values are:

* **ee** for enterprise edition
* **ce** for community edition
| ce

| glooctl_version
| The `glooctl` version to download
| 1.8.0

| gloo_write_namespace
| The namespace where to write all the gloo resources.  This value will not be used if `gloo_install_override_file` is set.
| gloo-system

| gloo_install_override_file
| The Gloo edge install override values
| 

| gloo_proxy_nodeport
| Expose the Gloo Proxy `http` and `https` Kubernetes services to be configured as type `NodePort`
| false

| gloo_discovery_enabled
| Enable gloo discovery services
| true

| gloo_watch_namespaces
| The namespaces to watch the gloo resources, takes a list of values
a| 
[source,yaml]
----
 - default
 - gloo-system
----
|===

[#gloo-example-playbook]
== Example Playbook

[#gloo-example-playbook-ee]
=== Enterprise Edition
[source,yaml,subs="+macros,attributes+"]
----
include::example$gloo-edge-ee.yml[]
----
<.> Deploy Gloo
<.> Gloo Edge Enterprise Edition will be deployed
<.> The Gloo License Key that will be used with the deployment, the license key will be picked up `pass:[$GLOO_LICENSE_KEY]` environment variable while running the playbook
<.> Disable Gloo service discovery
<.> Change the Gloo `write-namespace` to `my-gloo`
<.> Configure a set of `watch-namespaces`
<.> Expose Gloo proxy ports as NodePorts

The gloo variables used above will be configured on to minimal install-overrides https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/3.0.x/[Jinja] template link:https://github.com/kameshsampath/kubernetes_spices/blob/main/roles/k8s_app_spices/templates/gloo/ee/install-overrides.yaml.j2[install-overrides.yaml.j2].

The above configuration will be translated to the following `install-overrides.yaml` file during playbook execution:

[source,yaml,indent=2]
.install-overrides.yaml
----
license_key: xxyybabauewelkaslklk
gloo:
  discovery:
    enabled: false
    # disable auto function discovery
    fdsMode: DISABLED
  settings:
    writeNamespace: my-gloo
    watchNamespaces:
      - demo-1-8-6
      - demo-1-10-2
      - my-gloo
  gatewayProxies:
    gatewayProxy:
      service:
        type: NodePort
        httpNodePort: 30080
        httpsNodePort: 30443
----

[#gloo-example-playbook-ce]
=== Community Edition
The following example playbook deploys Gloo Community Edition to the Kubernetes cluster:

[source,yaml,subs="+macros,attributes+"]
----
include::example$gloo-edge-ce.yml[]
----
<.> Deploy Gloo
<.> Disable Gloo service discovery
<.> Change the Gloo `write-namespace` to `my-gloo`
<.> Configure a set of `watch-namespaces`
<.> Expose Gloo proxy ports as NodePorts

The gloo variables used above will be configured on to minimal install-overrides https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/3.0.x/[Jinja] template link:https://github.com/kameshsampath/kubernetes_spices/blob/main/roles/k8s_app_spices/templates/gloo/ce/install-overrides.yaml.j2[install-overrides.yaml.j2].

The above configuration will be translated to the following `install-overrides.yaml` file during playbook execution:

[source,yaml,indent=2]
.install-overrides.yaml
----
discovery:
  enabled: false
  # disable auto function discovery
  fdsMode: DISABLED
settings:
  writeNamespace: my-gloo
  watchNamespaces:
  - demo-1-8-6
  - demo-1-10-2
  - my-gloo
gatewayProxies:
  gatewayProxy:
    service:
      type: NodePort
      httpNodePort: 30080
      httpsNodePort: 30443
----

You can check the xref:role-kubernetes-kind.adoc#kind-with-gloo-edge-ee[KinD with Gloo EE] or xref:role-kubernetes-kind.adoc#kind-with-gloo-edge-ce[KinD with Gloo CE] examples to see how to deploy Gloo Edge on to a local KinD cluster.

Commit message:

fix: gloo install wait conditions with and without nodeport
- gloo added extra variable to handle overrides
- gloo merge write namespace with watch namespace

documentation/modules/ROOT/partials/_deploy_gloo_edge.adoc, after:

Gloo tasks allows you to configure the Gloo Edge installation.

[#gloo-edge-ansible-vars]
== Gloo Edge Ansible Variables

.Gloo Ansible Variables
|===
| Name | Description | Default Value

| deploy_gloo_edge
| To deploy Gloo Edge or not, accepts `true` or `false`
| false

| gloo_edge_edition
a| 
The gloo variant to deploy, possible values are:

* **ee** for enterprise edition
* **ce** for community edition
| ce

| glooctl_version
| The `glooctl` version to download
| 1.8.0

| gloo_write_namespace
| The namespace where to write all the gloo resources.  This value will not be used if `gloo_install_override_file` is set.
| gloo-system

| gloo_install_override_file
| The Gloo edge install override values
| 

| gloo_proxy_nodeport
| Expose the Gloo Proxy `http` and `https` Kubernetes services to be configured as type `NodePort`
| false

| gloo_discovery_enabled
| Enable gloo discovery services
| true

| gloo_watch_namespaces
| The namespaces to watch the gloo resources, takes a list of values
| []

| gloo_install_override_files
| The gloo install Helm value override files. Check the https://docs.solo.io/gloo-edge/latest/reference/helm_chart_values/[Gloo Edge Community] or https://docs.solo.io/gloo-edge/latest/installation/enterprise/[Gloo Edge Enterprise] for various value overrides
| []

|===

[#gloo-example-playbook]
== Example Playbook

[#gloo-example-playbook-ee]
=== Enterprise Edition
[source,yaml,subs="+macros,attributes+"]
----
include::example$gloo-edge-ee.yml[]
----
<.> Deploy Gloo
<.> Gloo Edge Enterprise Edition will be deployed
<.> The Gloo License Key that will be used with the deployment, the license key will be picked up `pass:[$GLOO_LICENSE_KEY]` environment variable while running the playbook
<.> Disable Gloo service discovery
<.> Change the Gloo `write-namespace` to `my-gloo`
<.> Configure a set of `watch-namespaces`
<.> Expose Gloo proxy ports as NodePorts

The gloo variables used above will be configured on to minimal install-overrides https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/3.0.x/[Jinja] template link:https://github.com/kameshsampath/kubernetes_spices/blob/main/roles/k8s_app_spices/templates/gloo/ee/install-overrides.yaml.j2[install-overrides.yaml.j2].

The above configuration will be translated to the following `install-overrides.yaml` file during playbook execution:

[source,yaml,indent=2]
.install-overrides.yaml
----
license_key: xxyybabauewelkaslklk
gloo:
  discovery:
    enabled: false
    # disable auto function discovery
    fdsMode: DISABLED
  settings:
    writeNamespace: my-gloo
    watchNamespaces:
      - demo-1-8-6
      - demo-1-10-2
      - my-gloo
  gatewayProxies:
    gatewayProxy:
      service:
        type: NodePort
        httpNodePort: 30080
        httpsNodePort: 30443
----

[#gloo-example-playbook-ce]
=== Community Edition
The following example playbook deploys Gloo Community Edition to the Kubernetes cluster:

[source,yaml,subs="+macros,attributes+"]
----
include::example$gloo-edge-ce.yml[]
----
<.> Deploy Gloo
<.> Disable Gloo service discovery
<.> Change the Gloo `write-namespace` to `my-gloo`
<.> Configure a set of `watch-namespaces`
<.> Expose Gloo proxy ports as NodePorts

The gloo variables used above will be configured on to minimal install-overrides https://jinja.palletsprojects.com/en/3.0.x/[Jinja] template link:https://github.com/kameshsampath/kubernetes_spices/blob/main/roles/k8s_app_spices/templates/gloo/ce/install-overrides.yaml.j2[install-overrides.yaml.j2].

The above configuration will be translated to the following `install-overrides.yaml` file during playbook execution:

[source,yaml,indent=2]
.install-overrides.yaml
----
discovery:
  enabled: false
  # disable auto function discovery
  fdsMode: DISABLED
settings:
  writeNamespace: my-gloo
  watchNamespaces:
  - demo-1-8-6
  - demo-1-10-2
  - my-gloo
gatewayProxies:
  gatewayProxy:
    service:
      type: NodePort
      httpNodePort: 30080
      httpsNodePort: 30443
----

You can check the xref:role-kubernetes-kind.adoc#kind-with-gloo-edge-ee[KinD with Gloo EE] or xref:role-kubernetes-kind.adoc#kind-with-gloo-edge-ce[KinD with Gloo CE] examples to see how to deploy Gloo Edge on to a local KinD cluster.
